The Joe Rogan experience.
One of the most bonkers things in our culture today. Yeah. I mean,
amazing. That's that Scientology is like still, I mean,
I passed by the church of Scientology here just the other day. I was like, huh,
still works.
<Laugh> yeah, they they've just moved it. I, when the documentary came out,
um, some woman had just gone to see it at the movie theater and the,
and the, uh, it was on the drag, you know, on Guadalupe, across from, um,
the university. And she drove her car through the plate, glass windows,
the Scientology building, and she didn't stop there.
She drove around the lobby a little bit knocking over bookshelves and stuff.
I had to issue a statement deploring violence in any form.
Was she a, a victim.
Of it or no, she had just seen the documentary and she was really worked up.
Wow. So.
That's a hype. She might have some other issues. Yeah, she might.
<Laugh> yeah.
Maybe Scientology could have helped her actually. Yeah. Wrote.
Could have been, I might have been a course for that. Well.
This it's a weird thing.
When you see so many people that are so successful that are Scientologists,
at least you used to see that I had a neighbor who was one of the nicest guys
and he was a great guy. Who's a, in my old neighborhood.
And he was a Scientologist. And I found out in the most bizarre way, because,
uh, there was, uh, a piece of land that was for sale.
And he was talking about this piece of land, about possibly purchasing it. But,
uh, he was gonna have to put it off because he needed $50,000 because
his wife was going clear. Right. And it was like,
like a scene in a movie where the record skips <laugh> and I went, what,
like, what are you doing? And this was me of, you know,
I was probably 28 at the time 29.
I was the, the podcast has radically changed the way I look at things.
Cause I've had a chance to educate myself yeah.
And have all these conversations with brilliant people.
And just enough of these conversations where I have a different perspective.
But back then, I really didn't know too much about Scientology.
Other than I had bought a book from, um, uh,
DS online, cuz uh, not online rather, uh, on, on television, late night TV.
Yeah. 94. And they wouldn't stop sending me these pamphlets. Yeah.
Asking me to come to all these various, uh,
meetings and this and that and sending me all things for programs and they have
discounts. And I mean, I was in one way, I was kind of a,
I admired their hustle. I was like, this is, these guys don't stop. Right.
Like they just kept sending this to my mailbox.
I taught it was like a self-help book.
And I would always been in the like Anthony Robbins and all these different, I,
I always into motivation. I like, what can I, what can I get?
That's gonna help me like work harder or succeed better. Do you know,
whatever. So I saw this thing and it was like, wow, this seems, uh,
very compelling.
And I knew that there was a bunch of famous people that were Scientologists,
like Tom cruise and all right. I was like, maybe this is maybe this is legit.
And I was reading it and I was like, this boy, this is like, seems odd.
It seems off without getting too much into it. So when I talked to this, um,
guy who was my neighbor really didn't have a deep background and understanding
it, but that was the beginning of me. Like really getting into it,
it like talking to him and, and finding out like how much money he had to spend.
And what was it about and like, what did they do for you? And they,
he was explaining how nothing would ever influence you again,
no negative influence that's going clear. Meant.
That was probably one of the first times I had ever heard that expression. Yeah.
I, first time I ran into it was when I was in, in college and I was, uh,
my girlfriend and I were living in an apartment above this little storefront
and, uh, it was Scientology and uh, I'd never heard of it before. And you know,
they, I, they showed me the, the EME and stuff like that. And I just thought,
I thought it was an interesting, you know, I, I wasn't put off by it.
I was <affirmative>, you know, I thought maybe so I didn't pursue it.
Uh, how old were you at the.
Time? I was 21. 21. Yeah. And,
uh, you know, it was, I've always been interested in religions,
you know, one of the, the themes, I guess, of my work and, uh,
and why people go into one religion rather why they believe one thing rather
than another, because in America you can believe anything you want.
And you know, that's not true in a lot of countries, but in our country,
there's a smorgasboard of religions you can choose from.
And if you don't see something, you know, you can make up your own. And,
you know, it was a very fertile religious culture, uh,
which interests me and, and I I've, as a reporter,
I think about how people have strong political beliefs and it
doesn't affect their behavior at all. Mm. You know, you know,
a lot of people like that, I'm sure. Or, but, you know,
if you have powerful religious beliefs, it determines your life. And,
you know, as, as journalists, we should pay more attention to that.
So I've always been intrigued by different religious
manifestations. And so Scientology was on my list. Uh,
I had wanted to write about it and because they're, you know,
they're always scaring everybody, um, with, you know, legal threat threats or,
you know, shakedowns and stuff like that.
Uh, do they still do that or have they kind of backed off from that?
Oh, the people that, some of my sources for that, you know,
they hounded them mercilessly and, you know,
they are private investigators. They're not,
they're not doing the, the job that private investigators are, you know,
they're doing is not so much to, uh, sneak up on your, you know,
go through your trash. Although they do that,
it's intimidate you mm-hmm <affirmative>. And, you know,
they had somebody following me around for a while. Uh,
mainly to my public events, you know, when I was making speeches,
I I'm in a band and he came to one of my gigs. <laugh> <laugh>.
What kind of band do you?
It's a blues band. We play, you know, access Louisiana music. And, uh,
we used to back before the pandemic. I, I don't know if our,
we had a regular gig at the Skylar lounge in east Austin and,
uh, opening.
Well, I want to come see you when you'll.
Be invited. Yeah. Uh, we, we got it. We're gonna be really rusty.
We need a lot of rehearsal now that's.
To be expected. So, um,
you got really fascinated by religions. And what,
what made you focus on Scientology? I mean, there's,
there's a lot of crazy religions out there.
One of the weirdest ones about Scientology is we know who made it, right? Yeah.
It's like him and Joseph Smith, those the more, and, and Scientology,
the only ones where we know who the creator is. Right.
And the Scientology one is particularly weird,
cuz it was a science fiction author. Yeah. It's like,
that was that didn't raise any red flags of people like.
<Laugh> well, you know, you,
you mentioned Mormons in the same breath and I think that's apt. You know,
they were the most stigmatized religion in the 19th century.
Uh, you know, mark Twain hated them. Uh,
Zane gray wrote a, a, a novel about, you know, how wicked they were.
They were hounded from one state to another.
And Scientology is kind of the modern equivalent of that. You know, they,
and of the reasons I wanted to write about it is you have these famous and
sometimes wealthy people,
as you point out affiliating with this organization,
they must be a kind of public relations martyrdom for them. Mm. I mean,
you, you can admire Tom cruise or John Travolta for their acting,
but you also think, are they a little nuts? You know,
is there something going on with them that they need this religion? And uh,
so why do they affiliate?
Why do they lend their celebrity and their standing
to, uh, such a stigmatized religion?
That was one of the reasons I wanted to write about it.
Well, they must get some benefit out of.
It. That's what I, I, and they do. Yeah. I'm not, you know, I think,
especially at the lower levels, you know,
they offer courses like Jerry Seinfeld was in for a while. I.
Don't think he was ever in,
I think he was interested in it and he was studying it. He took some courses.
Yeah. And.
Uh, but he was never like committed as a Scientologist watch.
What is a ologist? I mean,
once you're going to the celebrity center and you're taking courses, you know,
I say you're a Scientologist.
But if you go fishing once, are you a fisherman?
Yeah. That CA aren't you. It's a good question. You know,
I'm, I'm testing the water. I played basketball.
A couple times. I Harley a basketball.
Player. It's a little different, is.
It? I mean, I guess it is, but I mean, I feel like taking courses and things.
Doesn't mean, well, Leonard Cohen did as well and rock Hudson. I mean,
there were a lot of people were drawn to it. And I think, you know,
part of it is, uh,
Scientology set itself up as a religion
for celebrities. It deliberately targeted people like that.
Mm-hmm <affirmative>. And, uh, for instance,
if you go to Hollywood and you look at, you know, prominent actors and so on,
they tend not to be Southern Baptist. You know,
they is not designed for them. And, uh, you know,
they may come from a Southern Baptist, uh, background,
but if they move to Hollywood and they're looking for a group of spiritual
seekers like themselves, and they're, you know,
they want to affiliate with people like them.
Scientology says here we all.
And we have the celebrity center where people like you, you know,
can come and you can hang around with other famous people. Uh.
I think they offer a certain amount of protection.
And I think there's some something that there for that. And there's also,
I think, um, there's a structure that exists.
And I think there's a lot of people that, especially in such a volatile,
um, sort of, it's a uncertain world,
the world of acting in particular. Yeah. It's such a crazy world. I mean,
I always said, if you want the, a formula, like why is LA the way it is? Well,
just stop and think about what it is. You,
you have a bunch of people that move there from somewhere else because they want
fame. Right? Right. And then you make them audition,
which is the weirdest thing. You go into, uh, an unnatural environment,
usually a conference room. There's a bunch of people sitting around judging you.
And you want them to like you enough to pick you to do this thing.
So you can't in any way, buck trends,
you have to be like Uber polite. You have whatever the ideology is.
That's accepted the general vibe of Hollywood. You must confirm to that.
You must conform to that. Rather you like there's,
they don't even have opinions.
They have this conglomeration of opinions they've adopted in order to be let in
to this tribe. And then you, you hope that they pick you.
And so you have these incredibly insecure people who want acceptance and love,
and then you make 'em beg for it. They're essentially like, yeah,
going there and hoping that these people will like them.
And that's where you get the abuse,
like the Harvey Ws deans of the world and these type of people. It's like,
they're praying on this new need to be accepted and brought into this group in
order to, to, to, to be, to, to, to work, to be able to work. You, you,
you have to play this up game. And so if something comes along like Scientology,
that gives you structure and gives you family and gives you like the,
we are for you, we're gonna help you become clear.
We're gonna bring you to the next level. You know, you,
you're a gives you something where you feel like, like,
have you ever done martial arts? I did judo when I was in high school.
One of the beautiful things about martial arts is the belt system. Yeah.
Because like, you, you,
when you are a white belt and also sudden they tie that blue belt on your waist,
you're like, wow, I am making progress. This is really happening.
And you feel fantastic. Whereas if you went to a martial art, like, uh, I,
I did kickboxing for a while. There's no belts. And it just feels weird. Like,
you don't know where you are. Like, where am I? Like, it's not,
it's not the most success. And like, and because of that,
some kickboxing systems, even in Mo Thai,
some weird systems have developed their own belt structure, which is weird.
The system they've just sort of added to the existing martial arts that didn't
have a belt structure, but it's to give people this sense of progress,
give people a scaffolding, give people, structure,
give people this thing where you feel like something is happening to for me.
And I think that's one of the things that Scientology does really well.
It does for these up people. Absolutely catch new episodes.
The Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog J E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to find now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.